In this video we'll learn
how to Search for Products by Category.
All righty, so our Release 2.0 Plan
from the Boss,
he gave us this big long list.
So our current task right now
is searching for products by category.
So for this given feature
we'll have our application,
over on the left-hand side we'll have a menu,
a list of links or options here,
and when you select the link
it'll show you the products for that given category.
And the best way to get a idea about this
is to take a look at a demo.
So let me swing over there to my web browser,
love to shop.
And over on the left-hand side we have our links,
so if I select Books,
it gives me a list of books,
I hit Coffee Mugs and I have a list of coffee mugs.
So again, it's actually showing you the products
based on the given category.
So it will show you books
or it will show you coffee mugs
based on those links.
And in a video series coming up here
we'll learn how to write all the code
behind the scenes to make this happen,
to make this work.
All righty, so let's take a look at Angular Routing.
In Angular you can add links in your application.
The links will route to other components
in your application.
Angular routing will handle updating
a view for your application.
And just like the demo I showed you earlier,
we have links over on the left-hand side,
and if you click that link
then a section of the page is updated.
So it'll only update a section of your page,
it doesn't reload the entire page.
All right, so that's the whole idea
of the single page application.
Only makes partial updates to your given page,
and Angular can help us with this.
All righty, so with the Angular Routing here
there's some key components here.
So we have the router, it's the main routing service.
It enables navigation between the views
based on the user actions.
For example clicking on a link.
We also have a route,
so it basically maps a URL path to a component.
There's a RouterOutlet, it acts as a placeholder,
so it renders the desired component
based on the route.
You have the RouterLink,
so that's your link to specific routes
in your application,
kind of like that menu that we saw.
And then we have an ActivatedRoute,
so it's the current active route
that loaded the component.
And this is useful for accessing route parameters.
So for example we can use this to actually access
the category ID
that's passed over by a given router or link.
Now we'll see code examples
of all of these components in the upcoming slides
and so we'll actually write codes
that use all five of these components here.
And there's also more the Angular Routing.
So you can access the the link here on the page
for more details.
All righty so let's go ahead and look
at our Development Process.
So the first thing that we'll do
is we'll define the routes,
then we'll configure the router
based on our routes.
Next we'll define the router outlet,
we'll set up router links
to pass over the category ID parameter.
Next we'll enhance our product list components
to read the category ID parameter.
And we'll also modify our Spring Boot application
because the REST Repository needs a new method
for handling category ID.
And then finally we'll up date our Angular Service
to call the new URL on the Spring Boot app.
All righty so I'm kind of excited,
let's go ahead and dive in here.
So in step one of defining a route.
So a route is a path and a reference
to a component.
So when the user selects the link
for the route path,
Angular will create a new instance
of the component.
And so here I'll set up my routes.
And so the routes are simply a Comma-delimited list
of route items.
They specify the actual path to match.
And then when the path matches
it's going to create a new instance
of a given component.
So in this example,
when they go for products
then we'll create a new product list component
and pass the appropriate data
to that product list component.
Now, one thing to make note here
is that the path has no leading slashes all right,
Angular will handle that part of it for you.
We can also add a route to show products
for a given category ID.
So here I have my routes,
and I have this entry here for category/:id.
So this says that the category ID is a parameter.
The component can read this later on
and show products for this given category.
And we can also add more routes
to handle for other cases.
So here's my list of routes.
Note here entries number two and three,
this is for category products,
there's no category ID given,
so internally the component will use
the default category ID.
And I'll show you how to write the code
for this to handle this given scenario.
And then also here I have path,
so no path is given.
So here we say,
it's simply going to redirect to /products.
Now notice here,
this is one exception to the rule
about no leading slashes.
So when you do a redirect
then you can make use leading slashes
to access a given route.
And then also the path match,
this basically tells us how should we match on the path,
so here full means to match on this path exactly.
Now the default option is prefix,
which means match if the path starts
with a given value,
but in this case we want to match exactly.
And the final item here is the generic wildcard,
we use the star, star, for this.
So this will match on anything
that didn't match the above routes.
So this is kind of like your else case
if nothing else matched up above.
Now one thing to be aware here
is that the order of the routes is important.
So the first match wins,
going top down.
So when you define your routes
you should start from the most specific route
all the way down to the generic route.
And you can also add
a custom PageNotFoundComponent for 404s.
So in case the user gives something
that doesn't match,
instead of redirecting to the main page,
you could say, "Hey send this to my PageNotFoundComponent.
Now this is a custom component
that you create.
You can give it any name,
and you can provide your own custom view.
So it's totally up to you
as far as how you want to handle
this given scenario.
So one thing to be aware of here,
be sure to place this last, because remember,
the order of routes is important,
so the first match wins going top down.
So when you write your routes,
start from the most specific
to the generic.
And if you like to see examples
of how to create a custom component
for this PageNotFound,
then go to the link here that I have on the slide.